He has said we really mention to the Five Gaius and the Five Wisdom, Five Wisdom.
And the Five Wisdom, generally, of course, we all know, we heard so many times that.
But Dhammadattu Wisdom, what that means actually?
The Dhammadattu Wisdom is all these Four Wisdom, Five Wisdom are, they are not solid or existing.
Everything is open, emptiness.
So that means all the Four Wisdom are best on the Dhammadattu Wisdom.
Dhammadattu Wisdom.
So Dhammadattu Wisdom is the emptiness aspect of the Wisdom.
The openness aspect of the Wisdom. Embrace it. Openness. That is Dhamadattu Wisdom.
Let's pour down the Four Wisdom, those Four Wisdom, clarity aspect of the Dhammadattu, clarity
aspect.
And the Merolang Wisdom is a metaphor. That Wisdom, the Buddha Wisdom, that all the everything,
both Samsara, Narana, and the Path to the Narana, all reflect within the Merolang Wisdom.
Everything. As the Merolang, everything is reflected. Path, prison, the future, everything is
reflected.
So it's an example, metaphor, how they reflect.
And then, equanimity Muslims, even they reflect everything in that Merolang, great Merolang Wisdom.
Muslims, in the Wisdom level, everything is equal. There's no difference in place.
All are completely equal. Completely are one state. There's no difference.
Different. And the third one, Third Wisdom or Fourth Wisdom.
Discrimination ever is Wisdom. That means even it is reflecting everything in that Merolang,
and everything is equal, but yet it's not mixed up. It's so precise.
It's so distinct. Everything, exactly as it is. But that is exactly, clearly, precisely, everything
.
Everything. Exactly that. So this is discrimination,
awareness, wisdom. That's seeing everything. So detailed. So precise. In the Buddha's teaching,
the wisdom point of view of the Buddha's wisdom, or the Buddha's point of view,
there's nothing is hiding. Nothing is unknown. All is clear. How that's clear? In one instant,
moment sees everything. And not below. Not mixed up. Not mixed up. That's true.
Because of that, then and then, Buddha, propelling all activity through that wisdom,
beneficial activities, all that aspect is all accomplished in those. In the Buddha's teaching
often, when I teach him, Buddha sees everything. Who is having difficulties?
Who is having kind of good performance? And Buddha sees everything, really perfectly.
Accordingly, readiness, and there, according karma, Buddha helps. So that is the wisdom.
Now that the wisdom is reflected in the parkaya. So sorry, next one here is the park viewland.
That the wisdom is reflected in the parkaya. It's Buddha's viewland.
Viewland is not the, not the kind of externally solid example. It's display of the wisdom.
And similarly for us, for our, this world is display of the karma,
humanities. But Buddha's viewland, that's why it's called viewland. Viewland is the view,
this is the viewland of the wisdom display. And there is then five, there are many numbers of
viewland, but they are known one or highlight as the five viewland. And those are known as
in the center. Center viewland is called in the debate world, the very abundance, viewland of
abundance, if you translate it. The east viewland is known as viewland of the Delight Force,
Gomorrah Gavachand. And the south viewland is a very luxurious, the glorious viewland,
also upon the dimension. That's what any people, that's it. And then west viewland is,
viewland is sukawati, or the devotee nation, or great blissfulness. And the next one is the north,
is the viewland of the completely, all the activities, activated, the viewland,
or the proponent, all the activities. And later, those are five viewlands. How those viewlands are?
In the teachings, I mean, I say it's viewland here, or it's view, perfect. It's not reflective of
the
karma, dualities, it's truly reflections of the versus, versus love and compassion. Therefore,
it's called viewlands. And then that's what? In that viewland, then the palace of the deities
is known as that proportion, proportion and the proportion and the measurement are unbelievable,
unbelievable, inconceivable. It's called an intubated Yaryekes. It's something unbelievable,
so amazing, beautiful palace. In that palace, then what? And then that viewland is so old time,
the viewland, everything is glowing, so bright, glowing, and so appealing, appealing, appealing.
And then that viewland in that palace, in the throne, and if I use the regular word,
the furniture of that viewland is just so beautiful. Really, there's nothing to compare, perfect.
All the thrones and the seats and everything is just displayed, are perfect.
And that viewland, one of them, another one, is called the inconceivable laryx of all
pipe-sensor objects. Those are known pipe-golent of the sambokaya brothers, pipe-golent, all that
is complete. So this viewland is so perfect. And then, here's the pipe mothers and the pipe fathers
,
those are, I think we went yesterday too, I mean, same thing. Pipe fathers are
such as then pipe-golent of the others, those pipe-golent of the others. And I think yesterday,
yeah, pipe-golent of the others, yeah, pipe-golent of the others, and those are, again, and
veracana, and vegir sattva, renna sambava, and amitaba, and amogasada, I think it's pipe,
that's the pipe brothers. And then, I think yesterday, I can't believe we had, maybe we
mentioned already correctly, but I mentioned that with those pipe, what's called pipe,
aggregate transformed, the pipe-golent, Buddha, I can do a little bit mixed out,
a wobbling, a wobbling, and that, a wobbling, again, I will say, the foam,
aggregate is the Buddha vervajana, and then the peeling aggregate is the Buddha renna sambava,
construction aggregate is Buddha amitaba, and the construction aggregate is Buddha amogasada,
and as well as then, that the consciousness aggregate is Buddha vervajana, that is now,
and I said that yesterday, that's the correct, if they didn't say exactly that number, this was
really correct. And then, five mothers are, such as five mothers are, I mean, yesterday,
I think I mentioned, I mean, here, I said that, but I'll just list the names. Five mothers are
Reja Dattu, Dattu Shuri, or Doji Unsoma, and Sadi Thima, Mamaki, Gurukaramu, and Tamsak
Gurma, those are the three names, and the five female Buddhas, female Buddhas. So, all that is
also part of the Dukki, so that means part of our own awareness, part of our own true nature,
and then three duels, and the three duels are the, of course, the Buddha Dharma Sanghas,
and the Buddha Dharma Sanghas, in an absolute level, I mentioned yesterday, one's own awareness
is the true living Buddha, and through that, love and compassion, wisdom is a shiny, that is Dharma
,
and when they activate that quality, then it's Sangha, Sangha. So, Buddha Dharma Sangha,
absolute level, is always with us, excellent level, and the Buddha is, for example, Buddha,
Sakyamuni is like Buddha. And then, Dharma is his teachings, Buddha's teachings, and those are
Nainan teachings, all three basket teachings, what your terminology use, all those are teachings.
Sangha members who follow in those teachings, and such as the Theravada Sangha members,
Mahayana Sangha members, Rayayana Sangha members, all are Sangha members.
All are Sangha members, and they say that, so really about the three duels, three duels,
duels, and then three roots.
Three roots are in the Rayayana teaching, is also according, generally Mahayana teaching,
Buddha Dharma Sangha, those are the three object categories. And in the Rayayana teaching,
then three roots are also like the way Buddha Dharma Sangha. So root, who are they? That is
Guru, is root of the blessings, is a Guru, and a root of the accomplished human is.
Yadam deities, root of and activity is. Beneficial activity is the Dakini's and the Dharmapada's,
those are known as three roots. And again, in a Guru representing the Buddha,
and deities or the Yadams represented as Dharma, and Dakini's Dharmapada represented as Sangha
members,
Sanghas. So those are really explaining about the three roots, that. And then here, lineage,
lineage, root, and three lineage, and also all the three lineage can be, I mean,
these songs, three lineage can be as like, all the three lineages of the Dukhi teachings,
all lineages of those like, five lineages, those are the Buddha families,
radio families, and Buddha, sorry, Buddha families, radio families,
retina families, karma, pema families, karma family, those are the wrecks. See, wrecks,
those are all. And those are also, even though it's named those different families,
but reality really, it's all of this place. Even the pema family, for example, pema family,
embodies all the five dhyana Buddhas. So that means the pema family, which has all the five dhyana
Buddhas, pema family of the Buddha family, pema family of the Vedya family, pema family of the
Rana family, pema family of the Karma family, pema family of the of the Vedya family. They all,
each of those, again, have them, it's not restricted as three, because it's display of the
primordial wisdom. Therefore, there's 100,000 really this, this place that emanated as it
needed. But when it comes to the one single state, back to that, then in the teaching version to
the
Vedas, sadhva status. And that comes to where? To the primordial wisdom, the youthful vast body.
That is an youthful vast body is residing to our heart, our soul, everyone else is now in the vast
race. But when it's filled up, what the great master Narayana said, we knew the vast is in,
in the vast, there is in great master Narayana used example as inside the vast, there's light,
lamp, L-A-M-P, lamp, inside the lamp. But so that lamp is inside the vast and can see the light.
But if you push one hole to the lamp, and by the Vedya of the Samadhi, if you push the hole
to one way, and light comes out, if you push two, more light come, if you push three, will come.
If the Vedya Samadhi breath that vast completely, that light, the spell, the entire
Dharmadathos completely become light, right? This vast, vast is the obscurations. Great
Street of Buddha used example, seven length of the human beings, underneath that trade,
used yesterday. It's deep. Why so deep? Why so thin? We accumulated unintentionally from the
beginner's times. And still we're adding, adding unintentionally. That habit pattern is thick and
strong, strong. So our practice of meditation, we're doing that with short time, it won't
immediately,
but still is really brain good result. Because the power of the skillful means technique of the
Vedayana teachings, we have the most powerful skillful means of teachings, can dispel that,
dispel that. And that, so that's a lineage. And then mandala, mandala here mentioned,
mandala, and that is again, of course, we all know the mandala, mandala, this is mandala, mandala.
But it is so controversial.